The style would be, Social Fiction, looks like science fiction but it has little technological advancement, it mainly focusses on social differences, ethical dilema and a challenge to our society's paradigm... Turns out the "name" already exists as Social Science Fiction, typiclaly Orwell, Huxley, Clark are explorers of those subject !

Story of a man, in a modern world where there are no rule, no governing power, the main character (Roger) would be a pass-time theorist, or someone with a role of the sort, maybe a problem solver for others a kind of lawyer in a world with no law, a dancer of the dangers of a world who self balances with rules not set by any man but by man's nature... 
One way to describe this is to talk of anarchism, and this would be in all fairness, another would be to talk of "raw freedom".
(in this fiction the word "anarchism" would not exist, many words wouldn't, some would be only theorized like "law" or "crime", these concept would not really exist at least not with the same meaning or magnitude, "law" would be studied as we study dictatorship, for this world their implicit laws are just an extention of nature or human nature and not worth labeling)
An eye for an eye might be what you would expect, but the prospect of worse "a life for an eye" actually tempers most people. For the sake of argument, there are very few crimes, the majority of those crimes are passionate and are the result of poor self-control or very challenged minds. Psycopath would be hired by the likes of Roger, they would have there full place in such a society; purely logical, no passion and therefore no crime (the nuance here is important, a psycopath is not requierd to kill ^^), and smart people that would suffer the crimes of a more rash and otherwise stupid person would hire the likes of Roger to get ride of that "inconvenience to society" in a clean fashion to avoid repercussions, and it solves both problem of people getting smarter and less aggressive by natural selection.
No centralized authority, no prison, no large scale economy, no financial up and down on the global market, room for everyone to start grow to a human scale and pass to the next, no bank would grow to big because the risk reward would be to high.
There are a few ways the story could be brought, distopian directly outlining the shortcommings of such a society or lack of, a reverse distopian where the world is a happy place til a group trying to bring order and laws ruin the freedom of this setting, a third way is to stay purely utopian and let the story be framed by the concept and not modify the society's structure. Maybe sections that explore each of these in sequence. 
I want readers to think, how is this different from our world at a fundemental level? Why did we get stuck in our ways? What would actually happen if we tried? Isn't anarchy what we had in the very begining and isn't our model the natural developement of anarchism?

We live in a world where it is well looked upon to procrate when we dont have enough to feed every one, and once we realise these children are ill or generaly unfit for the world in autonomy we consider it cruel to not take extensive care of them. The demographics are getting out of hand. In such a world individuals are as big a polluter as big corporations. Having less kids, when I think about it, does not seem to be the more human thing to do (having kids is the most human thing to do) but it might be the right thing to do. I've not often seen quality in quantity, rather it be education or gene pools it seems to me we would gain as a society to not make as many fucking babies. And once I have said this, usualy the first bullshit counterpoint is that it's not our "advanced country" that polute the world, fuck you, you said "advanced" !! Try to transcend, don't see this as a me vs them problem, but more as a what can I do about it, it's simple really if you are better then the third world country's population help them out, stop making babies start adopting. If your not same thing stop making more average babies start adopting !!
